# Monogenic Fields Of Cryptographic Size
This repository contains code related to the paper Monogenic Fields of Cryptographic Size by Swechchha Adhikari, Max Brown, Stephen McKean, Daphne Plott, and Parker Torgersen

This code contains test and exploratory computations regarding the polynomial transform F(x) = x^n f(1/x + c + x) where n is the degree of f(x). Along with test computations it contains some brainstorming notes. These will be labeled where they show up. The code is all designed to run through Sage.

This code is split into four main categories regarding different properties of the transformation.

What's included in this repository:

## Irreducibility 

### Irreducibility_CombinationsOfx^n.ipynb

This file generates examples of single-transformed polynomial, and will check the irreducibility of the resulting transformation. It is currently set to look at degree 6 polynomials, but this can be updated easily.

### Irreducibility_CompareCWithReverse.ipynb

This file will take some f(x) with some c value, and calculate the g(x) such that applying the transformation with c = 0 will result in the same F(x). It does this to compare the irreducibility of f(x) and the irreducibility of g(x). Preliminary data implies that f(x) is irreducible if and only if g(x) is, and this is supported by the findings of our paper. 

This file also includes some details about how to apply the reverse transformation in a computational setting. For more information on this, we refer the reader to Cafure and Cesaretto's paper "Irreducibility Criteria for Reciprocal Polynomials and Applications" found on JSTOR at [https://www.jstor.org/stable/10.4169/amer.math.monthly.124.1.37?seq=7].

### Irreducibility_CriteriaWithC=_2.ipynb

This file tests a very specific criteria found at [https://mathscinet.ams.org/mathscinet/article?mr=3187737]. It provides irreducibility criteria for a very specific subset of our transformation. This subset later contradicted with our attempts to look at monogenicity. As such, it was an early investigation that proved less necessary with our broader irreducibility criteria.

### Irreducibility_FactoringFailedTransforms.ipynb

Thie file factors transformations where f(x) was irreducible, but F(x) was not. It factors from a list of 'failed' transformation included in the file. It additionally factors F(1) and F(-1).

### Irreducibility_FactoringFromFileWithPredictionMath.ipynb

This file factors transformations from a given file, using details about the coefficients of f(x). 

It also includes a piece of math used to predict 'failed' transformations where f(x) is irreducible but F(x) is not. This math is not included in the published paper as it is inefficient, and an early attempt to describe irreducibility.

### Irreducibility_TimeCompareDifferentSolutions.ipynb

This file runs an empirical time comparison of the sage math factoring algorithm against an algebraic analysis of the coefficients of F(x) in terms of the coefficients of f(x). It was determined this solution was not time effective. This was an early investigation into a possible irreducibility criteria that did not work out.

### Irreducibility_FialedTransformData.txt

This data file contains the coefficients of degree 4 polynomials and c values for which f(x) is irreducible but F(x) is not. The data in this file is formatted as ",l,m,n,o,c" to be used as f_x = x^4 + l\*x^3 + m\*x^2 + n*x + o with c being the transform value c.

## Monogenicity

### Monogenicity_BackTransformWithPalindromic.ipynb

This file tries to answer the following question: Given the result of some transformation, can we find a c value such that the reverse transformation of F(x) with regard to this c value will give us a palindromic polynomial f(x)? This was an attempt to prove that the set of transformed polynomials, or the set of the resulting polynomials after multiple transformations, was the same as the general set of palindromic polynomials. This was the start of a potential approach to showing there are an infinite number of monogenic transformed polynomials. Most (if not all) of the code in this file was generated by ChatGPT. The results of this test were that not every palindromic polynomial can be reversed to some palindromic polynomial.

### Monogenicity_Investigations.ipynb

This file investigates monogenicity by calculating the differences between roots of F(x), which are part of the discriminant of F(x). It yeilded no useful information as we were able to figure out.

### Mongenicity_SimpleCheck.ipynb

This file takes a given c and f(x) value, creates F(x), and calculates the discriminants of both functions and the number fields they generate.

### Monogenicity_AlgebraicChecksonTheorem.ipynb

This file runs checks on the expression for the discriminant we propose in our paper againsts the discriminant calculated by sage. It also will iteratively apply the transform and track properties of F(1) and F(-1). It contains some personal notes about the application of a different theorem to determine the discriminant based on functional composition found in this paper: https://faculty.bard.edu/cullinan/disccomp.pdf. While this particular application fell through based on some holes, a separate computation found the same expression, and that is what is included in our paper.

### Monogenicity_BacksolvingForg(1).ipynb

This file has some functionality to try and backsolve for F(1), according to calcuations worked out by hand. This did not help square-free factoring because there are added terms in the expression I found. 

It then compares the size of F(1) between a polynomial starting at degree 1, and a polynomial starting at degree 8, both getting up to a final polynomial of degree 1024. The sizes were much the same, and not helpful for squarefree calculations.

It contains a lot of notes to self about how to determine if F(1) and F(-1) are squarefree, some of which are interesting questions, although mostly from a number theory perspective. 

It lastly looks at how the addition of squarefree/squareful numbers are squarefree or squareful. No useful pattern was observed.

### Monogenicity_DiscriminantsInTermsOfa.ipynb

This file looks at the discriminant of multiple iterations of applying the transform to f(x) = x - a. It calculates the discriminants in terms of a generic a and c value.

### Monogenicity_IterateThroughTransform.ipynb

This file has code that will loop through different degree 2 polynomials, and iteratively apply the transformation. It tracks when and how often we expect a transformed polynomial to be monogenic. 

This file has code that will loop through different degree 3 polynomials, and compare when f(x) is/isn't monogenic against when F(x) is/isn't monogenic.

This file also contains some notes to self about proving that F(x) isn't monogenic if f(x) isn't monogenic, which is proven in our paper.

### Monogenicity_ReverseTransform.ipynb

This file contains code to apply the reverse transformation to different sizes of F(x). 

It also contains thoughts about trying to reverse any palindromic polynomial into another palindromic polynomial. Refer back to Monogenicty_BackTransformWithPalindromic.ipynb for more notes on this.

It contains some rambling thoughts about trying to prove an infinite number of these stacks will be monogenic.

### Mongenicity_SquareFreeAlgorithms.ipynb

Monogenicity_g(1)vs(g_1).ipynb

## Galois Groups

GaloisGroups_GaloisGroupsWithDictionary.ipynb

GaloisGroups_GaloisGroupData.txt

## Normal Extensions

Normal_NormalExtensions.ipynb

Normal_NormalTransforms.ipynb

Normal_SucessfulTransforms.ipynb

Normal_Data.txt



POTENTIAL TO-DOs:

- Go back into Irreducibility_FactoringFromFileWithPredictionMath and actually describe what the prediction math does....
- Put a note in the overleaf describing how there are additional questions and ramblings in the github
- In Monogenicity_IterateThroughTransform.ipynb (and also in this file), I claim that we prove that if f(x) is not monogenic, then F(x) is not monogenic in the paper. Is this accurate?